In this video we'll go behind the scenes to see all the plug ins I'm using at W.P. of course dot.com
some plug ins are the premium plug ins that you'll be using as we create more Web sites in the sandbox
in the upcoming chapters.
I'm using to manage the Wordpress multi-site installation that powers the students sandbox.
In this lesson you'll begin to see the possible applications for premium plug ins as well as Wordpress
Let's get started.
Lets start by logging in at students dot W.P. of course dot com.
If you're not already you can log in to the button at the upper right and use your own username and
log in into your Wordpress dashboard at the student sandbox area.
Go ahead and click plug ins and you can browse the plug ins with me.
I'm just going to introduce a few of the premium plug ins in this list that we'll be using in the next
Building web sites and then will transfer over to the WPA dev area inside of the Administrator account
WP of course dot com and I'll show you around some of the plugins I'm using to run this multi-site installation
First of all we've played with the contact form 7 plug in a little bit and I mentioned in one of the
promotional freebies on their code Kanyon brand at the enviro market will be playing with this in the
Custom presses another one from W PMU death and we'll be talking about that later in this video.
few chapters inside the sandbox.
Google maps again from WPA.
Udev is a premium maps plugin that offers some additional features on top of the one that we've been
Layered pop ups I gave a tour of in one of the previous videos and again this is a pop up plug in that
I've purchased from and Vado market as we scroll down.
There's a couple of free plug ins here like regenerate thumbnails that will go over in future videos.
You've experienced the soliloquy plug in and all of its add ons in the previous chapter and that's it
For now I'll be adding more premium plug ins to this list.
sandbox area and I'm going to go log in to the master super admin account at the WP dev course dot com
and give you a small tour of how I'm using premium plug ins to run this multi-site installation.
This looks very similar to your sandbox site dashboard but I've got of course a few other items that
I'm using the code snippets plugin that I introduce to you in a previous chapter to manage some of the
areas inside of the administration dashboard in the Wordpress multi-site installation.
If I go up to the dashboard this is the WP at Dev course site itself but if I rollover this network
admin drop down and then click dashboard.
This is the network administration dashboard area for the entire multi-site network.
Here you can see that I've got the branding plug in that I went in that I went over earlier with you
up here.
I'm customizing the admin bar by adding a resources button and the WP 101 tutorial videos button up
Using the admin bar add on.
I'm using the text change add on to the branding plug in and I've changed the word howdie the standard
I've also changed the word blog within the entire admin area to the word site.
In terms of images I have easily added an image to the top of the log in page as you can see over here.
This is a custom image.
They allow you to use the official logos from WordPress for any branding you might be doing.
And I use that as an image inside of the multi-site Sarah.
I'm not using it now but I'm able to use an admin message where I can place that in the administration
So if you ever see a message from me with a little green bar at the top I'm using this admin message
add on to the branding plug in in order to deliver that message.
I have eliminated the permalink menu down here.
Under settings Permalink.
For you as the student because I don't want you to be able to change the permalink around inside of
I don't have any custom styles for the admin but I could I could change the colors or brand this a little
In terms of widgets I'm eliminating some of the widgets from the dashboard home page the at a glance
and some other ones I'm a limiting activity the CEO posts and the quick drafts and the Wordpress news.
That is a RSS feed from the Wordpress news repository.
And finally I've added a link to the bottom that says hosting theme and plug in resources page it's
Up at the top but I figured I would place a link down there at the bottom that links to the resources
You can see I've used the branding plugin from WPA udev pretty extensively to customize the Wordpress
Let's look at the WPA you dev dashboard plug in and it's settings panel here under the plugins tab.
It first shows me which WBM udev plug ins I have installed and I have either an activator or deactivate
bit about the plug in and I can link over to the plug in directions and the description over at WBM
you dev dot org.
Of course you can see right here I'm using the dashboard plugin to manage my updates.
And other information and organization of these plug ins ultimate branding is the one that I just went
I'm using WPA devs backup plug in called snapshot pro and I use that time to set up periodic backups
of all the sites in the student's sandbox as well as are my own sites within that which is the W.P.
of course.
And the students of course dot com site I have pop up pro activated for you guys to be able to go ahead
I've introduced the W PMU dev videos earlier in this course and I have that network activated so that
inside of the plugins area on each of the students sites Google Maps.
I just discussed ultimate.
web site and we'll be playing with that in the social networking chapter later in this course.
Membership 2 is a premium plug in for making membership sites and you can see it has a whole lot of
features for making exclusive membership content within your site and protecting that behind a paywall
or an opt in while things like that are going to be playing with that pretty soon in the course I'm
using new blog templates and in the background you don't see availability of this because I'm using
It means that when someone signs up for a new student's sandbox it loads.
Whichever theme I have enabled with the content that's within that example Blug template or new site
template.
So when you first signed up you were able to have the parallax pro site activated within your students
Custom press is an excellent plugin that makes custom taxonomies like categories and like tags you can
That means that if your client or if your site needs some different categories besides just the Blug
and organize their content in terms of another taxonomy like T-shirts or T-shirts sizes something like
It's a very powerful plug in for creating new poster types and taxonomies
pro sites is for multi-site so that you can sell additional access through your multi-site setup.
And I'm not using it within W.P. of course dot com right now but it's possible that I may want to upgrade
some of the student sites with some different you know unpaid areas that are only accessible to certain
When you sign up.
I for a student website I have this MailChimp sync plug in activated so that you get on the news and
updates list so I can email the group whenever I need to.
I'm using the multi-site privacy plug in to make sure that only administrators of their own sites can
Since this is a private student sandbox network I don't want any of the sites to be open to the Internet
and gain extra traffic that we don't need.
Multi-site theme manager is a way to organize the themes inside of your themes page and I may decide
Default theme is currently just in the background.
It allows you to select a new default theme for new sites that are created on the network because I'm
using the new blogs templates and I can get more granular control over what new sites look like.
Pretty plug ins is a way to organize all the plug ins once we have more and more plug ins that are premium
I'll probably organize them into categories using this great plug in I do allow you to set your own
And this this plugin allows me to do that.
Also this plug in remove email verification allows you to get started right away and get logged right
into your new site as soon as you sign up without having to open an email and verify your account.
This one admin adds another way for me to communicate to the entire network with a block on top of your
If I ever need to and finally sign up code this is how I limit the sign ups to the students inside of
student's sandbox.
Below that though the WBM dev dashboard plugin allows me to see available plug ins that I don't have
You can see that there are a ton of premium plug ins that I have available to me with my WPA dev membership
Well that about does it.
Those are the premium plug ins that I'm using within the WPA udev student's sandbox area and you have
In this video we went over the list of premium plug ins you can use as you build your sites in the student's
the Wordpress multi-site setup that powers the students sandbox itself in the next few chapters.
We get into building some more sites in the student's sandbox creating them using premium themes and